

Part 2:- Angular modules and controllers

What is a module in AngularJS
A module is a container for different parts of your application i.e controllers, services, directives, filters, etc. 
You can think of a module as a Main() method in other types of applications.
Modules declaratively specify how the angular application should be bootstrapped. 


How to create a module:-
Use the angular object's module() method to create a module. The angular object is provided by angular script. 
var myApp = angular.module("myModule", [])

The first parameter specifies the name of the module. 
The second parameter specifies the dependencies for this module


The angular.module is a global place for creating, registering and retrieving Angular modules. All modules (angular core or 3rd party) that should be available to an application must be registered using this mechanism.
https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/function/angular.module






What is a controller in angular
In angular a controller is a JavaScript function. 
The job of the controller is to build a model for the view to display. The controller does this by attaching the model to the scope.
The scope is not the model, it's the data that you attach to the scope is the model. 
The model is the data. In a real world application, the controller may call into a service to retrieve data from the database.





How to create a controller in angular
var myController = function ($scope) {
    $scope.message = "AngularJS Tutorial";
}

In the following example, $scope is not the model. The message property that we have attached to the scope is the model.


What is $scope
$scope is a parameter that is passed to the controller function by angular framework
With in the view, we can retrieve the data from the scope object and display.



How to register the controller with the module
Use module object's controller function to register the controller with the module
myApp.controller("myController", myController);



Example:-
1) Basic
2) Attaching complex objects to the scope
3) What happens if a controller name is mis-spelled
4) What happens if a property name in the binding expression is mis-spelled
5) How to create module, controller and register the controller with the module, all in one line


